Document experimental `useActionState()` helpers with Actions (#12323)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/integrations-guide/react.mdx

* 💧 client-side hydration options, and
* 🤝 opportunities to mix and nest frameworks together

## Integrate Actions with `useActionState()` (experimental)

> [Astro Actions][astro-actions] can be integrated with [React's `useActionState()` hook](https://react.dev/reference/react/useActionState) to update client-side state when triggering actions during form submission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@astrojs/react` integration provides two experimental functions for use with [Astro Actions][astro-actions]: `experimental_withState()` and `experimental_getActionState()`.

These can be used with [React's `useActionState()` hook](https://react.dev/reference/react/useActionState) to update and read client-side state when triggering actions during form submission.
```
What about an introduction that front-loads the things we're documenting, and makes it clear that these are to be used with Actions? Then, we describe what they do.

Author: Looks good to me, maybe I would be a bit more explicit with the second sentence to be clear that these functions are only to be used with `useActionState()` and don't make sense otherwise. Also, changing the order a bit in the end
```suggestion
The `@astrojs/react` integration provides two experimental functions for use with [Astro Actions][astro-actions]: `experimental_withState()` and `experimental_getActionState()`.

These are to be used alongside [React's `useActionState()` hook](https://react.dev/reference/react/useActionState), allowing to read and update client-side state when triggering actions during form submission.
```

Reviewer: OK, agree about the emphasis on `useActionState`! Can we be more brutal about the verbosity, and get away with this:

> These are used with [React's `useActionState()` hook](https://react.dev/reference/react/useActionState) to read and update client-side state when triggering actions during form submission.

> To do so, pass `experimental_withState()` receiving the action you want to trigger in the `useActionState()` hook:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `experimental_withState()`

<p>

**Type:** `(actionName: string) => void<br />
<Since v="4.3.2" />
</p>

You can pass `experimental_withState()` and the action you want to trigger to React's `useActionState()` hook as the form action function. The example below passes a `like` action to increase a counter along with an initial state of `0` likes.
```
(I don't know for sure what the type should be, but let's make a section for each one of these!)

Reviewer: Let's ask @ArmandPhilippot , who won't see this, so we'll need to ping him in Discord! 😆

Reviewer 2: This looks correct to me (maybe with `<T>` at the beginning?), but yes I don't know if this is really helpful... I wonder if we can't simplify a bit because we are currently documenting a React type if I understood correctly. Maybe something like:
```
**Type:** `<T>(action: (formData: FormData) => Promise<T>) => typeof useActionState`
```

What do you think Yan since you're more familiar with the API? If not, maybe removing the type is fine for this one.

Author: We could also simplify by not "exploding" the types, e.g. or maybe something between this and Armand's suggestion. What y'all think?
```
**Type:** `(action: FormFn<T>) => (state: T, formData: FormData) => FormFn<T>
```

Reviewer 2: Oh yeah, I didn't noticed this was the exact same function earlier! Your suggestion looks better. Approved!

I'm a bit confused with this API (nothing to do with the type, this looks good). I wanted to double check using the content of your changeset in a fresh project and I got different Typescript errors when I was trying to use `experimental_withState`!

I managed to get ride of those errors, but it seems what is described in the changelog (what you reused in your changeset, right?) is not fully compatible with `"astro/tsconfigs/strict"` (the default in v5):
* using `"astro/tsconfigs/strict"`, I had to make some adjustments in the two files to get ride of the errors
* using `"astro/tsconfigs/base"`, I had to make adjustments only in the component file (where we use `experimental_withState`) to get ride of the errors... and so I wonder if this works correctly because I'm not returning the same format in the `defineAction` handler.

One thing I discovered is that [using `accept: "form"`](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/actions/#accepting-form-data-from-an-action), in `defineAction` might be a prerequisite (with `strict`) to make the action compatible with `experimental_withState`. And so, we might need to document that...

I'll post a comment on your changeset in the other PR with the changes I had to make to get ride of the errors because we might want to show a working function (at least without Typescript errors if what you had was working).

Author: > One thing I discovered is that [using accept: "form"](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/actions/#accepting-form-data-from-an-action), in defineAction might be a prerequisite (with strict) to make the action compatible with experimental_withState

Yes, I believe this function is only meant to be used in the case of form-submitted actions. For actions evoked like RPC it isn't necessary. Good point

```jsx title="Like.tsx" ins={2,6}
import { actions } from 'astro:actions';
import { experimental_withState } from '@astrojs/react/actions';

export function Like({ postId }: { postId: string }) {
  const [state, action, pending] = useActionState(
    experimental_withState(actions.like),
    0, // initial likes
  );

  return (
    <form action={action}>
      <input type="hidden" name="postId" value={postId} />
      <button disabled={pending}>{state} ❤️</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```

The `experimental_withState()` function will match the action's types with React's expectations and preserve metadata used for progressive enhancement, allowing it to work even when JavaScript is disabled on the user's device.

> You can also access the state stored by `useActionState()` on the server in your action `handler` by calling `experimental_getActionState()` passing in the API context, and optionally, apply a type to the result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `experimental_getActionState()`

<p>

**Type:** `(context: APIContext) => void<br />
<Since v="4.3.2" />
</p>

You can access the state stored by `useActionState()` on the server in your action `handler` with `experimental_getActionState()`. It accepts the Astro API context, and optionally, you can apply a type to the result. The example below gets the current value of likes from a counter, typed as a number, in order to create an incrementing `like` action.
```
Still kind of guessing, but maybe something like this?

```jsx title="Like.tsx" ins={2,6}
import { actions } from 'astro:actions';
import { experimental_withState } from '@astrojs/react/actions';

export function Like({ postId }: { postId: string }) {
  const [state, action, pending] = useActionState(
    experimental_withState(actions.like),
    0, // initial likes
  );

  return (
    <form action={action}>
      <input type="hidden" name="postId" value={postId} />
      <button disabled={pending}>{state} ❤️</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```

The `experimental_withState()` function will match the action's types with React's expectations and preserve metadata used for progressive enhancement, allowing it to work even when JavaScript is disabled on the user's device.

### `experimental_getActionState()`

<p>

**Type:** `(context: APIContext) => Promise<T><br />
<Since v="4.3.2" />
</p>

You can access the state stored by `useActionState()` on the server in your action `handler` with `experimental_getActionState()`. It accepts the Astro API context, and optionally, you can apply a type to the result. 

The example below gets the current value of likes from a counter, typed as a number, in order to create an incrementing `like` action:

> ```ts title="actions.ts" ins={3,11}
> import { defineAction } from 'astro:actions';
> import { z } from 'astro:schema';
> import { experimental_getActionState } from '@astrojs/react/actions';
> 
> export const server = {
>   like: defineAction({
>     input: z.object({
>       postId: z.string(),
>     }),
>     handler: async ({ postId }, ctx) => {
>       const currentLikes = await experimental_getActionState<number>(ctx);
>       // write to database
>       return currentLikes + 1;
>     },
>   })
> };
> ```

Author: ````suggestion
```ts title="actions.ts" ins={3,11}
import { defineAction, type SafeResult } from 'astro:actions';
import { z } from 'astro:schema';
import { experimental_getActionState } from '@astrojs/react/actions';

export const server = {
  like: defineAction({
    input: z.object({
      postId: z.string(),
    }),
    handler: async ({ postId }, ctx) => {
      const currentLikes = await experimental_getActionState<SafeResult<any, number>>(ctx);
      // write to database
      return currentLikes + 1;
    },
  })
};
```
````

<Since v="4.3.2" />
</p>

You can pass `experimental_withState()` and the action you want to trigger to React's `useActionState()` hook as the form action function. The example below passes a `like` action to increase a counter along with an initial state of `0` likes.

```jsx title="Like.tsx" ins={2,7}
import { actions } from 'astro:actions';
import { experimental_withState } from '@astrojs/react/actions';
import { useActionState } from "react";

export function Like({ postId }: { postId: string }) {
  const [state, action, pending] = useActionState(
    experimental_withState(actions.like),
    { data: 0, error: undefined }, // initial likes and errors
  );

  return (
    <form action={action}>
      <input type="hidden" name="postId" value={postId} />
      <button disabled={pending}>{state.data} ❤️</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```

The `experimental_withState()` function will match the action's types with React's expectations and preserve metadata used for progressive enhancement, allowing it to work even when JavaScript is disabled on the user's device.

### `experimental_getActionState()`

<p>

> **Type:** `(context: APIContext) => Promise<T>`<br />

Author: yeah, that's a bit confusing. I guess we should fix that page to something like:
> Actions expose a subset of the APIContext object

> **Type:** `(context: APIContext) => Promise<T>`<br />

Author: Thinking about it, I feel like we are fine keeping "the full APIContext" here and in that page, so people don't have to stress about what is and isn't available, when the only things omitted are the ones you *can't* to avoid nasty infinite loops and stuff.

I'll let @sarah11918 give her call before doing anything

<Since v="4.3.2" />
</p>

> You can access the state stored by `useActionState()` on the server in your action `handler` with `experimental_getActionState()`. It accepts the Astro API context, and optionally, you can apply a type to the result. 

Author: did you mean to comment this in the suggestion above instead, @sarah11918? 😆

> You can access the state stored by `useActionState()` on the server in your action `handler` with `experimental_getActionState()`. It accepts the Astro API context, and optionally, you can apply a type to the result. 

Reviewer: You know it, @yanthomasdev ! (I had one job.)

The example below gets the current value of likes from a counter, typed as a number, in order to create an incrementing `like` action:

```ts title="actions.ts" ins={3,11}
import { defineAction, type SafeResult } from 'astro:actions';
import { z } from 'astro:schema';
import { experimental_getActionState } from '@astrojs/react/actions';

export const server = {
  like: defineAction({
    input: z.object({
      postId: z.string(),
    }),
    handler: async ({ postId }, ctx) => {
      const currentLikes = await experimental_getActionState<SafeResult<any, number>>(ctx);
      // write to database

>       return currentLikes + 1;

Author: LGTM, totally forgot to fix that part
